master: document CPU-aware hot region scheduling (#23140)
pingcap/docs: pd-control.md

}
```

> Starting from v8.5.7, the `hot read` and `hot history` commands include `flow_cpu`, and the `hot store` command includes `cpu-read-rate`. These fields show the read CPU usage for CPU-aware read hotspot scheduling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting from v8.5.7 and v9.0.0, the `hot read` and `hot history` commands include `flow_cpu`, and the `hot store` command includes `cpu-read-rate`. These fields show the read CPU usage for CPU-aware read hotspot scheduling.
```

> Starting from v8.5.7 and v9.0.0, the `hot read` and `hot history` commands include `flow_cpu`, and the `hot store` command includes `cpu-read-rate`. These fields show the read CPU usage for CPU-aware read hotspot scheduling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting from v8.5.7 and v9.0.0, the output of the `hot read` and `hot history` commands includes the `flow_cpu` field, and the output of the `hot store` command includes the `cpu-read-rate` field. These fields show the read CPU usage for CPU-aware read hotspot scheduling.
```

    scheduler config balance-hot-region-scheduler set min-hot-query-rate 10
    ```

> - `min-hot-cpu-rate` specifies the minimum CPU usage of read requests to count, which is usually 10.

Reviewer: What does "10" represent? CPU time in microseconds per second? A percentage? A normalized value?

Author: `10` means a CPU usage rate, measured as percentage points of one CPU core.

> - `min-hot-cpu-rate` specifies the minimum CPU usage of read requests to count, which is usually 10.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `min-hot-cpu-rate` specifies the minimum CPU usage of read requests to count. The value is measured as a percentage of one CPU core, and the default value is usually `10`, which means 10% of one CPU core.
```

> - `min-hot-cpu-rate` specifies the minimum CPU usage of read requests to count. The value is measured as a percentage of one CPU core, and the default value is usually `10`, which means 10% of one CPU core.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `min-hot-cpu-rate` specifies the minimum CPU usage required for a read request to be included in hotspot statistics. The value is measured as a percentage of one CPU core, and the default value is usually `10`, which means 10% of one CPU core.
```

> - `min-hot-cpu-rate` specifies the minimum CPU usage required for a read request to be included in hotspot statistics. The value is measured as a percentage of one CPU core, and the default value is usually `10`, which means 10% of one CPU core.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `min-hot-cpu-rate` specifies the minimum CPU usage required for a read request to be included in hotspot statistics. The value is measured as a percentage of one CPU core, and the default value is `10`, which means 10% of one CPU core.
```

- `read-priorities`, `write-leader-priorities`, and `write-peer-priorities` control which dimension the scheduler prioritizes for hot Region scheduling. Two dimensions are supported for configuration.

    - `read-priorities` controls which dimensions the scheduler prioritizes for scheduling hot Regions of the read type. The dimension options are `cpu`, `query`, `byte`, and `key`.
    - `write-leader-priorities` controls which dimensions the scheduler prioritizes for scheduling hot Regions of the write-leader type. The dimension options are `query`, `byte`, and `key`.
    - `write-peer-priorities` controls which dimensions the scheduler prioritizes for scheduling hot Regions of the write-peer type. The dimension options are `byte` and `key`.

    > **Note:**
    >

>     > If a cluster component is earlier than v5.2, the configuration of the `query` dimension does not take effect. If some components are upgraded to v5.2 or later, the `byte` and `key` dimensions still by default have the priority for hot Region scheduling. After all components of the cluster are upgraded to v5.2 or later, such a configuration still takes effect for compatibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > If any component in the cluster is earlier than v5.2, the configuration of the `query` dimension does not take effect. After some components are upgraded to v5.2 or later, the scheduler still prioritizes hotspot balancing based on the `byte` and `key` dimensions by default. After all components in the cluster are upgraded to v5.2 or later, such a configuration still takes effect for compatibility.
```

    >

>     > Starting from v8.5.7, TiKV reports read CPU usage for hot Region scheduling. For clusters that support read CPU reporting, the default `read-priorities` value is `cpu,byte`. For clusters that do not support read CPU reporting, PD automatically falls back to `query,byte`, or to `byte,key` if the cluster does not support the `query` dimension either. You can view the real-time configuration using the `pd-ctl` command. Usually, you do not need to modify these configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > Starting from v8.5.7 and v9.0.0, TiKV reports read CPU usage for hot Region scheduling. For clusters that support read CPU reporting, the default `read-priorities` value is `cpu,byte`. For clusters that do not support read CPU reporting, PD automatically falls back to `query,byte`, or to `byte,key` if the cluster does not support the `query` dimension either. You can view the real-time configuration using the `pd-ctl` command. Usually, you do not need to modify these configurations.
```
